Chapter I The time
Charles Dickens
History of two cities
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, age of wisdom, and also of madness; the epoch of belief and unbelief; the era of light and darkness; the spring of hope and winter of despair. We had everything before, but we had nothing; derechura walked in the sky and we were all going the opposite way. In short, the time was so similar to today, our most notable authorities insist that, both in respect to good and evil, is only acceptable comparison superlatively.
On the throne of England was a highly developed jaw king and queen current face; on the throne of France there was a king too large jaw and a queen beautiful face. In both countries it was clearer than crystal to the lords of the State, that things in general were insured forever. It was the year of our Lord, in 1775. So it favored in times like this,
had been granted to England the spiritual revelations. Mrs. Southcott had recently met the twenty-fifth anniversary of its sublime appearance in the world, which was announced with timely by a bodyguard, predicting that preparations were made to swallow London and Westminster.
Even the specter of Callejuela del Gallo had been permanently banished, after prowling the world for twelve years and reveal their messages to mortals in the same way that spirits last year, who accused an extraordinary poverty of originality by revealing his. The only messages earthly order that received the crown and the English people, came from a congress of resident British subjects in America, messages, oddly enough, have proved more important to the human race that few were received by the mediation any of the elves Callejuela del Gallo.
France, less favored in matters of spiritual order that his sister, shield and trident, rolled with extraordinary smoothness downhill, making paper money and gastándoselo. Under the guidance of her Christian pastors, he also entertained with distractions as humanitarian as sentencing a young man that he cut his hands, he ripped his tongue with pliers and burned alive, for the heinous crime of not having kneeling in the mud one day rainy, to pay due deference to a procession of monks which passed before his eyes, even at the distance of fifty or sixty meters. It is very likely that when the unfortunate man was taken to the torture, the woodcutter fate had already scored in the woods of France and Norway, the ancient trees that the saw had to turn tables to build this movable platform, provided your basket and your knife, how terrible was to achieve fame in history. It is also quite possible that in the rustic sheds some farmers from immediate to Paris lands, were that day, sheltered from bad weather, rude carts full of mud, husmeadas by pigs and serving perch poultry, which the plowman Death had already chosen to make them the wagons of the Revolution. It is true that if the woodcutter and the peasant worked incessantly, his work was quiet and no human ear perceive their footsteps still, especially as harboring the fear that those were awake, he would have been to confess atheist and traitor.
There was hardly in England atom order and protection to justify national boasting. The capital itself was, at night, theater armed robberies and daring crimes. Publicly families not to leave the city without bringing before their securities to the repository only places where they were sure it warned.
Which at night he exercised highwayman, acted honest day trader in the City, and if ever he was recognized by one of the traders who assailed in his capacity as captain, he shot daringly shot in the head to escape after ; the Mail stagecoach was attacked seven bandits, which killed three, the guard, who then, in turn, was killed by the other four, as a result of munitions have failed, and so the measure could be stolen quietly; Grand mayor of London was docked at Turnham Green by a bandit who robbed the illustrious hero to the beards of his numerous escort. London prisons in fierce battles between prisoners and their jailers and majesty of the law are conveniently arcabuceaba were fought. The thieves snatched the diamond crosses the necks of noble lords in the same classrooms of the Court; Musketeers entered San Gil seeking genres smuggling, but the crowd fired on the soldiers, who replied the same way against the populace, without which no one would happen to think that such an event was not one of the most common and trivial. TO

all this the executioner was always very busy, but no use. As soon he left hung large bunches of criminals, and hanged on Saturday a thief who last Thursday was surprised to enter a neighbor's house or burned in Newgate dozen people or the next morning, hundreds of pamphlets in Westminter door-Hall; and he killed today and tomorrow a heinous murderer to a miserable thief who took sixpence the son of a farmer.
All these things and a thousand others like that occurred in the blessed year in 1775. Surrounded by them, while the Woodman and Labriego continued their slow work, both characters large jaws and two women, one beautiful and the other insignificant, and had lived pleased to spearhead their divine rights. So seven hundred seventy year and five thou led his greatness and myriads of insignificant beings, among which are those that are required in this chronicle, along the roads that lay before his footsteps.
Chapter II Diligence
Walking path the first of the characters in this story, the night of Friday November was to Dover. The traveler followed diligence as she moved slowly down the slope of the hill Shooter.
The traveler was up walking through the mud, alongside the rickety box carriage, just as did his companions, not desire to exercise, but because the slope, harnesses and mud and diligence, were so heavy that the poor horses had already stopped three times, and one of them crossed the car on the road with the purpose seditious turning to Blackheath. The reins and whip, the driver and the guard, combined, had read the article ordinances which ensures that never, under any circumstances, be right animals, and thanks to that shot back to the line of duty.
With their heads and tails trembling tried way through the thick mud road, stumbling and tumbling occasionally. And when the foreman gave them some rest, the front horse violently shaking his head as if to deny the possibility that the vehicle might never reach the top of the hill.
They covered the hollows and slid attached to the land of aqueous vapor clouds, like evil spirits seeking rest and does not find it. The fog was sticky and very cold and progressed through the air to form curls and waves, which were pursued and reached, like the waves of a rough sea. It was dense enough to enclose in close circle spilling light the lamps of the carriage, to prevent the steam jets giving off the horses noses they saw.
Two passengers in addition to mentioned laboriously climbed the slope beside diligence. The three had uploaded their necks wore coats and high boots. None of them could say that they were their companions, so carefully recataban all his features and character in the eyes of the body and soul of their peers. By the time the travelers showed hardly communicative with their peers, because any of them could be a bandit or an accomplice of the bandits. As for these, they abounded in taverns or inns extraordinarily, where you could find numerous soldiers in the pay of captain, and among them appeared from the same landlord until the last groom.

ice blocks. He wore his hand on a chest in which he had a loaded musket, and plenty of six or seven guns arzón on a lower layer of sables.
On this trip the diligence of Dover happened and all he did, that is, that the guard suspected of travelers, they distrusted each other and the guard, and looked at each other suspiciously. As the driver, I was only sure of his horses; but even with respect to these he has sworn, by the two Testaments that the horses were not suitable for that trip.
-Giddy Up! cried the cochero.- Up! A more effort and you will come up! Hey, Joseph!
-What do you want? He said the guard.
-What time is it?
'At least ten past eleven.
-Demon! She cried the cochero.- And we have not yet reached the top of that
damn hill. Giddy Up! Giddy Up! Lazy!
The front horse, who received a lash driver, jumped and undertook
the march dragging his three companions. Stagecoach continued to progress followed by travelers, who tried not to leave her and stopped when the vehicle he did, because if any of them had proposed a companion advance a little in the fog and darkness, would have exposed to receive a shot like a highwayman.
The latest effort took the car to the top of the hill, where the three horses stopped to catch her breath, while the guard down in order to fit the wheel for the descent and open the car door for travelers montasen.
-Joseph! said the driver from his seat.
What do you want, Tom?
The two were listening.
I think I know about a horse trotting.
Well, I think it comes galloping replied the guard perching his sitio.-
Gentlemen, please the king!
And after making this call, he took his gun and went on the defensive. He
passenger who relates this story was with his foot in the stirrup, about to go up, and the other two travelers were behind him and willing to follow him. But he stayed with the foot in the stirrup and therefore his companions were to continue as they were. Everyone looked at the coachman and the guard and give ear. As the driver and the guard looked back and even the front horse pricked up his ears and looked in the same direction.
The silence resulting from the stagecoach stop, added the night, was impressive. The heavy breathing of the horses made the car tremble, and the hearts of travelers throbbed with such force that perhaps they could have heard.
Finally he rang at the top of the hill the furious gallop of a horse.
-High! She cried the guarda.- Stop, or I'll shoot!
Immediately the rider reined his horse passing and little voice was heard
a man asking:
'Is this the diligence of Dover?
'Nothing you care! He said the guarda.- Who are you? 'Is this the diligence of Dover?
'What you want to know?
If it is, I must speak with one of the passengers.
-Which?
Jarvis Lorry 'Mr.

Passengers already described said that this was his name, and the guard, the driver and two other passengers watched with the greatest suspicion.
-¡Quedaos where you are! She cried the guard between the fog because if I'm wrong no one would be able to repair the error in your whole life. Lorry gentleman who call, answer the truth.
What is it? - asked the passenger shakily. -Who calls me? Jeremiah are ye?
I do not like the voice of Jeremiah, if this is Jeremiah growled the guard to himself. Yes, Mr. Lorry.
-What happen?
-a office that you send from there T. and Company.
I know this messenger, guard said Mr. Lorry down the road, what the other travelers did not put the smallest inconvenience, as they rushed to get into the car and close the puerta.- You can zoom in, there is no danger .
'I think so, but I'm not sure I mutter the guarda.- Hey, the rider!
-What happens? cried the voice questioned more anger than before.
'You can get close to the step. And try not to take the hand because I Holsters
wrong with my mistakes more quickly and take the form of lead. Go forward slowly so that you see.
Figures slowly appeared rider and horse went to stand alongside the diligence, where the traveler was. the rider and with eyes fixed on the guard handed the passenger a folded paper stopped. Fatigued were the rider and his horse and both covered in mud from the hooves hat from last to first.
-saves said the traveler.
'What you want? He asked the guard ready to shoot at the slightest sign of danger.
-There is nothing to fear. Tellson belong to the Bank. Surely you know the Tellson Bank, London. I go to Paris on business. Take this crown to drink. Can I read this?
-Hacedlo quickly.
He opened the statement and read it to the lantern light diligence, first to himself and then aloud. "Trust in Dover Miss" 'You see it's not long, he said guard Jeremiah, tell my answer is: "Risen".
-¡Vaya a strange answer! Jeremiah said boggling.
-Llevad this answer and she will know that I received the message. Good trip, farewell!
So saying, the traveler opened the door and entered the vehicle without being helped by two already in him, who had occupied hide their watches and money on boots and pretended, at that time, being asleep .
The car went on the march, wrapped in thicker haze to start the descent.
The guard returned to put in the box arquebuse not without looking at the pistols hanging from his belt and then examined a case that was under his seat, where he had some tools, a pair of torches and a box with flint and tinder to light the lamps of the carriage, which had to do several times at night when the wind extinguished, and could, if he was lucky, in about five minutes.
-¡Tomás! She cried the coachman keeps calling. What I want, Joseph?
Did you hear the message?
-Yes.

-How about?
Nothing, Joseph.
Well, it's a coincidence murmured the guard because I think the same. Jeremiah, and only in the mist and darkness, dismounted, not only
to rest his horse, but also to clean the mud dry face and a little hat. And when he stopped hearing the noise of the wheels of the coach, he started down the hill.
-After gallop from Temple Bar, said the mare friend, not your legs will trust me until we're on level ground. "Risen". It is a very rare message. And that does not understand Jeremiah. And Jeremiah friend, if it became fashionable resurrected, perhaps you saw a serious commitment.
Chapter III: Shadows of the night
It is a wonderful and worthy fact think about it, that each human is a deep secret to others. Sometimes when I walk at night in a city, I can not help thinking that each of those houses wrapped in shadow keeps his own secret; each room of each enclosing also its secret; that every beating heart in the hundreds of thousands of breasts there there is, in some ways, a secret to the heart that beats closer to him.
And so, so this particular is concerned, both the messenger who was returning on horseback, like the three passengers locked in the narrow precincts of a stagecoach, were each a profound mystery to others, as complete as if separately they had traveled in his own car and a whole county were between one another.
The messenger took the way back to the trot, stopping as often in the taverns was on his way to take a drink, but without speaking to anyone and keeping the soaked to the eyes hat, who were black, very together and sinister expression. They appeared under a hat, but such resembled a triangular spittoon and on a tabard started on the chin and ended at the knees of the individual.
No, Jeremiah, no! He murmured the messenger mind fixed on the same subject 'That can not convenirte. You, Jeremiah, you're an honest tradesman, and in no way should that to your business. "Risen." May I die if I was not drunk to tell me that!
So worried brought him the message that several times he took off his hat to scratch his head, which, except for the crown, which was bald, was covered with thick and coarse hair that fell almost to the height of the nose.
While returning to trot to transmit the message to the night watchman Banking Tellson in Temple Bar, who was to pass it on to his superiors, the shadows of the night took such shapes that constantly reminded the message, whereas for the mare constituted cause for concern, and certainly must have them at every step, because it manifested itself quite uneasy. Meanwhile, for travelers who were on the coach that ran lurching, those shadows shapes took his eyes half closed and lent them confused thoughts.
Tellson seemed that the Bank had moved to the stage. The passenger who belonged to the establishment, with the last arm of the belts, which prevented through out shot his neighbor when the car was one of his jumps, bobbed in place with eyes half closed. I thought I saw that the car windows, the lantern that shone weakly and bulk that made the other passenger, were the same Bank and at that time he performed numerous businesses.

Harnesses noise was the clink of coins, and paid more letters in five minutes what the Tellson Bank, despite its domestic and foreign relations, had never paid three times at the same time. Then, before the dozing passenger basements of the Bank, its valuable stores, their secrets, he knew a good deal, opened and he was driving around with his keys and lighting their with a candle, seeing that all was quiet, safe and as solid stop.
But although the Bank was always with him and although he also accompanied the car, confusedly, as under the influence of an opiate drug, had other ideas in his mind that did not stop all night. His journey was intended to remove someone from the grave.
But what did not indicate the shadows of the night was which of the faces that he had belonged to the person buried. All, however, were the faces of a man of about forty-five years, and differed mainly by expressing passions and their state of demarcation and lividity. Pride, contempt, challenge, stubbornness, submission and pain succeeded one another and, in turn, faces haggard, sunken cheek, cadaverous color and presented. But all the faces were of a similar type and all heads were prematurely gray hair. One hundred times the average passenger asleep asked that spectrum:
How long have you buried?
Eighteen years almost invariably replied the spectrum. You Had you lost hope of being dug out?
-and long ago.
You know you're coming back to life?
-That is the way they call me.
-¿Te want to live?
-I can not say it.
-¿Querrás you this? You want to come with me to see it?
The answers to this question were various and contradictory. Sometimes the
reply was: "Wait! I would die if I saw as soon "Other response came in a torrent of tears, say." Take me with her "Other admired and marveled spectrum he was then exclaimed:" I do not know. I do not understand you."
And after these imaginary speeches, the traveler, in his fantasy, digging the earth without rest, and with the hoe, with a key or with their hands in order to unearth that unfortunate. Finally he succeeded, and with hair and dirty face suddenly fell earth. Then, touching the ground wince and awakening down the window on her cheek to feel the reality of mist and rain.
But even then, with eyes open and fixed on the moving trace of light on the road was leaving the lantern of the vehicle, he watched the shadows outside had the same appearance as the car interior. He saw again the banking house in Temple Bar, the business conducted on the day before cameras were stored values, the messenger who sent him. And among all those shadows loomed the ghostly face and approached him again.
How long have you buried? Almost eighteen.
I suppose you want to live.
-I do not know.
And he digging, digging, digging, until the impatient movement of one of the passengers told him to close the window. Then, last arm strap was fixed in the forms of these two asleep, until his mind lost the power to look at them again and fantasized about the Bank and the grave.

How long have you buried?
Almost eighteen.
You Had you lost hope of being dug out?
-A long time ago.
The words were still in his ear, as clear as the clearest he had ever heard
life, when the weary traveler awoke to the reality of the day, and saw that it had moved away and the shadows of the night.
He rolled down the window and looked out at the rising sun. There was a furrow and plow abandoned the night before unyoke horses; beyond saw a copse, in which there were still many yellow and red leaves. And although the ground was wet and cold, the sky was clear, the sun rose bright, placid and beautiful.
-Eighteen years! said the passenger facing the sun. - OMG! He is buried alive for eighteen years !.
Chapter IV Preparation
When the diligence had happily come to Dover, mid-morning, the butler of King George Hotel opened the car door, as was his custom. He did so with the greatest ceremony, because a trip by stagecoach from London in winter was a feat worthy of praise for the undertake.
But at that time there was just a single traveler who compliment, because the other two had alighted in their respective destinations. Inside the diligence, with its damp and dirty straw, its disagreeable odor and dark, seemed more like a kennel large. And Mr. Lorry, the passenger, shaking the straw that filled his suit, his hat and muddy boots, looked more like a large dog.
Will there be morning boat to Calais, butler?
Yes, sir, if you continue the good weather and no wind rages. The mark up at two in the afternoon. Want bed sir?
'I'm not going to bed till night, but I want a room and a barber.
'And then lunch, sir? Perfectly. This way, sir. The Concordia for this gentleman! The luggage of this gentleman and hot water to Concord! Let them go to remove the boots to the Concordia Knight! There you will find the Lord a fire. Let go then a barber to Concord!
The bedroom called "La Concordia" is usually destined traveler diligence and offered the peculiarity that, upon entering, always seemed the same character, as all were wrapped from head to toe equally; Instead, the output was uncountable variety of characters they met. Therefore another servant, two grooms, several girls and the owner had been parked step, the traveler, between Concordia and coffee, when it appeared a gentleman in his sixties, dressed in a brown suit excellent use and wearing cuffs square, large and huge portfolios of pockets, and was headed to lunch.
That morning coffee had no other occupant than the gentleman in brown. He put the table by the fire; when sitting it was illuminated by the glow of the flames and stood as still as if he wanted might make him a portrait.
He stared quietly around him, while ringing in his pocket a huge clock. Her shapely legs and seemed proud of that, because means were perfect for them and they were excellent point. As for shoes and buckles, although current form, they were of good quality. Set to head wearing a curly wig, that rather than hair, he looked like silk or spun glass. His shirt, although not as good as stockings, was as white as the crest of the waves crashing on the nearby beach. Face, usually quiet,

and peaceful, it is buzzing with a pair of bright eyes, which certainly had a lot to do to its owner in youthful years to hold them and give them the serene and calm expression typical of those belonging to the Banca Tellson. He had healthy color in his cheeks, and his face, though reserved, expressed some anxiety.
And those who sit before the painter to make their portrait, Mr. Lorry ended up falling asleep. He was awakened by the arrival of lunch and told the young man that served:
I wish to prepare room for a young lady who arrive today. He asked Mr. Jarvis Lorry by, or perhaps only by a gentleman Tellson Bank. When you arrive, do please let me know.
Perfectly, sir. ¿Of Tellson Bank, London, sir?
-Yes.
-Very well sir. We are honored to host the knights of the Bank Tellson
on their trips back and forth from London to Paris. Much is traveling in the Tellson Bank, sir.
-Yes. We are a French house and also English.
-It is true. But you, Lord, do not You are traveling a lot.
'In recent years, no. It's been fifteen years since I was in France
for the last time.
-Really? So I was not here yet. The hotel was in other hands
so.
- I think so.
'In exchange, I would bet that a house like Tellson Bank has been prospering, not fifteen years but perhaps fifty ago.
-Podríais you say one hundred and fifty without stray from the truth.
-Really?
And while opening the mouth and eyes, leave the table, the servant was
contemplating the guest while eating and drinking.
When Mr. Lorry had finished his lunch, he went to the beach to give
a walk. The small irregular town of Dover was hidden from the beach and seemed to hide his head in the limestone cliffs, a marine ostrich. The beach looked like a desert full of stones and rocks in the sea did what he pleased, and what he pleased was destroyed, then he roared and raged everywhere. Some people, very few, were delivered to fishing on the beach, but instead, at night, were many who frequented the place, looking anxiously at sea, especially when the mark up. And some traders, who just performed operations earned suddenly enormous fortunes, and most notable was that no one in the neighborhood could even endure a lamplighter.
As the afternoon progressed and began shadows, clouds and sky ideas of Mr. Lorry was covered they seemed to darken too. When it was already night and sat down again before the fire, waiting for dinner, your imagination digging, digging endlessly while absently watching the coals.
A bottle of claret at dinner time does not harm any digger, and when Mr. Lorry was about to drink the last cup, resounded outside noise wheels moved down the street to enter finally in the yard house.
It must be the Miss He said leaving on the table the glass he would carry to his lips.
A few minutes later the waiter came to announce that Miss Manette had arrived from London and, with the greatest pleasure, would the gentleman of the house Tellson.

The gentleman drank wine glass, and after adjusting the wig followed the waiter to Miss Manette room. This was grim and gloomy, because its walls were hung with very dark color, tone also had furniture.
The darkness of the room were so dense that at first, Mr. Lorry did not think there was the lady who had seen, until the saw before him, by the fire and dimly lit by two candles. She looked no more than seventeen, had very pretty face, the golden hair, beautiful blue eyes and clear and intelligent front. And when the gentleman fixed his eyes on her, she seemed to remember the little girl who take her in his arms many years before, on a trip through that same channel. But the mental image come to her memory faded quickly and the gentleman bowed to the lady.
Have the goodness to sit, Knight said she harmonious voice and slight foreign accent.
-os kiss your hand, Miss cried Mr. Lorry making new reverence and sitting in place that tell you.
Yesterday, sir, I received a letter from the bank, informing me that he had known ... or discovered ...
The word is the least, Miss.
Something about scarce goods that left my father ... who never knew ... who died many years ago! ...
Mr. Lorry squirmed in his chair.
And necessitating my trip to Paris, where he had to put myself in relation to a gentleman of the Bank, sent there for that purpose.
-I'm myself.
She curtsied and bowed knight in turn.
I replied to the Bank, sir, that if my trip to France was considered necessary,
since I am an orphan and have no one to accompany me, at least, he wanted to be under the protection of this gentleman. As I learned, he had already left London, but I think they sent a messenger to beg him to wait for me.
I consider myself happy to have been honored with the order and I am happy to carry it out.
-os thank you, sir, 'said the young man.- I am very grateful. I announced at the Bank that the gentleman would explain all the details of the matter and I prepare to hear surprising news. Of course I have done everything possible to prepare myself and I assure you I feel desire to know what it is.
Of course, 'said Mr. Lorry.- I ...
After slight pause he added, adjusting his wig better:
It's very difficult to start.
He was silent while the young wrinkled forehead.
Isn't we will have seen before, sir? he asked her.
-¿Lo you think so? He exclaimed Mr. Lorry smiling.
She remained silent, unanswered and the gentleman added:
-In your adopted country, Miss, I guess you will wish that you treat as
if you were English.
As You Like It, sir.
Miss Manette, I am a businessman and over you have to take
out a business. When you hear of my lips so I would say, be kind enough not to see in my nothing but a talking machine, because, really, I will not be anything else. With your permission, then, I will refer to them now, miss, the story of one of our customers.

-A story?
Yes, ma'am, one of our customers. In our banking business customers to call all our relationships. It was a French gentleman; a scientist, great intellectual gifts. A doctor.
-¿De Beauvais?
Yes, ma'am, precisely Beauvais. As Dr. Manette, your father, the gentleman was of Beauvais. And, also like Mr. Manette, your father, the gentleman in question was well known in Paris. I had the honor of knowing him there.
Our relations were purely commercial, but confidential. I was at that time in our French House, and it does ... oh, at least twenty years!
-At that time? Can I ask what time it was?
I speak, miss, of twenty years ago. He married an English lady ... and I was one of its trustees. His affairs, like those of many other French gentlemen were entirely in the hands of the Bank Tellson. In the same way I am and I have been trustee of scores of our clients. These are business relations, miss; there is in them a friendship, special interest, or anything resembling feeling. In the course of my business life, I've gone from one another, in the same way as during the day step one client to another; in a word, I have no feelings. I'm a machine and nothing else. And continuing my relationship ...
But, sir, you're referring to me the story of my father, and now it occurs to me that when my mother died, that my father survived only two years, you ye who took me to England. I'm almost sure of it.
Mr. Lorry took the little hand coming toward him and respectfully to his lips. Then, having settled himself in his chair, he added:
Yes, ma'am, I did. And that will convince you that really have no feelings and all my customer relationships are purely business. Since then it has been the pupil of the Bank Tellson and I have not even tried to see you again, as I was busy with other matters. Sentimentality! No, I do not have time for it, because I spend my life busy moving huge sums of money.
Mr. Lorry returned to straighten the wig, though it was not necessary, and continued:
So, then, Miss, what just mentioned is the story of your father. But now come the differences. If your father had not died when he died ... Do not be alarmed!
Indeed, she was startled.
I beg continued Mr. Lorry moderéis which your agitation. Here it is not only business. As I was saying...
But the look of the young woman broke down in such a way that it stammering, continued:
As I was saying ... If Mr. Manette had not died, and if instead of dying, had disappeared mysteriously silent; if it had not been difficult to guess to what dreadful place was gone; Had it not been any compatriot so scary that would be dangerous to speak softly even your father, that is, without running the risk of being locked up forever more in some forgotten prison; if his wife had implored the king himself, queen, court and even the same ecclesiastical authorities to give him news of the missing, but always in vain ... then the story of your father would have been the same as that unfortunate gentleman, the Doctor of Beauvais.
-¡Continuad, sir, I beg you!

I'm going to continue, but do not you lack courage?
Anything is preferable to the uncertainty that have left me. You speak calmly and surely, you are already quiet. So I like added,
although his attitude seemed less pleased than their words.- This is only a business ... a business to be carried out. However; If the doctor's wife, though a lady of great value and very courageous, suffered much from this cause before her son was born ...
'It was a child, sir, but a girl.
Well, a girl. This does not alter the business. So Miss, the poor lady suffered so much before birth her daughter, who was resolved save the legacy of pain she had suffered, and made him believe that his father had died. Do not, do not kneel! Why do you kneel?
-For beg you to tell me the truth. Oh, sir, bemoan me and tell me the truth!
-and I will ... but this is nothing more than a business. I do aturrulláis and I can not follow. If, for example, I say how much added nine times ninepence or shillings there in twenty guineas, you will leave me calmer.
Without answering this question, she made an effort to control himself, and warning him his interlocutor, he exclaimed:
Well, well. Good courage. This is only a business and good business. Miss Manette, your mother took the decision I have indicated, and when he died, heartbroken with grief, and without leaving a moment to make inquiries regarding your father left you at two years of age on the way to grow beautiful, happy and penalties, and free from the dark cloud that would have represented to you the uncertainty of not knowing if your father was still locked in a dungeon and still suffering the tortures of being buried alive.
He looked sympathetic to the golden-haired young, as if he had feared them some silver threads.
-and you know that your parents had no great fortune he added that they possessed was properly insured for your mother and you yourself. No new discoveries made money, but ...
He stopped worthless to continue and after slight pause he added:
But he, however, has been found. Lives. Very changed, probably, and become a ruin, but we have hopes of something better. It is essential that lives. Your father has been taken to the house of an old servant in Paris, and there are going to target. I identify you, if I may; and you to return to life, love, duty, rest and well-being.
She shivered, then quietly said,
-¡Voy to see its spectrum! It will be their spectrum, but not him!
Mr. Lorry stroked the hands of the young man and said:
Calm yourself, Miss. Now you know everything good and everything bad. Come on
to meet the unfortunate knight, and after a happy journey by sea and land, you will find at his side.
The young, in the same tone of voice, exclaimed:
'I've been happy and have enjoyed freedom and has never haunted me his ghost. 'I must tell you something else pursued Mr. Lorry, trying to fix the attention of
When the young man.- had found another name for his or someone forgot or had interest to remain ignored. No need to try now to find out, nor is there reason to investigate why for so many years he was imprisoned, and because they forget him or because they wanted to have it locked up until his

death. These inquiries would be dangerous. It is better not to talk about any of that, at least while we are in France. I myself, although I am a British subject and used to Tellson Bank, with all the importance that France has the house, I avoid talking about it and not take it with me and a role which it relates. All powers that accredit me to resolve this issue, understood only one word: "Risen", which means nothing. But what is that? Poor thing, I do not even hear. Senorita Manette!
She was motionless and silent, senseless, with eyes open and fixed on him, as if he were a statue. The gentleman did not dare to touch, afraid to hurt her, but was quick to scream for help.
A woman appeared in untamed appearance and Mr. Lorry observed that was red from head to foot, as red was her hat, her hair red and her face red and her dress.
He ran into the room, preceding the servants of the inn and without thinking much shoved the knight, sending him to the nearest wall.
'That is not a woman! He thought Mr. Lorry. - more like a man.
'What do you stand looking? She cried the woman going to the maids. - Why do not you go in search of the necessary quedaros instead of looking at me like that? Bring me then salt, water and vinegar go! And as you added, turning to Mr. Lorry: - podíais tell you not all that without frightening her? Look how you left! Pale as death and meaningless! Is that what you call being a banker?
Mr. Lorry had no answer and humbly stood by the wall, hardly daring to look, and the woman took the remedies that had brought the servants, then ordering them to leave if they did not want to tell them something unpleasant.
I hope soon regain the sense observed Mr. Lorry.
-Not for what you have done woman.- said the mine Poor thing!
He said Mr. Lorry hope after another pause and with the same humility
that you will accompany Miss Manette in his trip to France.
-¡Sois a fool! cried the woman.- Do you think that if Providence had
I had arranged to travel by sea, I would have given birth on an island?
And this was difficult to answer, Mr. Jarvis Lorry's retired to meditate.
Chapter V. The Tavern
A large wine barrels fell on the street and broke. It happened the accident to
download of a carriage; He rolled a barrel and tripping over the ground was released fences and wine spilled, while the staves were facing a tavern, as huge broken walnut.
How many people there had suspended their work or laziness to go to drink wine poured. Irregular and outgoing stones of the street, intended, apparently, to maim those who would approach them, were the cause of several small ponds, each of whom I was surrounded by some individuals who, kneeling and were formed the hollow of his hand, the liquid collected and drank. Others gathered with crocks and even soaking handkerchiefs women wore head to twist them then even on the open mouths of children, and those who could not catch the precious liquid entertained licking staves covered inside stool. And thus was the desire of everyone so that,
While the wine lasted there was the greatest joy in the street, but once was not a drop ceased, as if by magic, the jubilation. All returned to

their occupations and cadaverous faces to come out of the dark caves disappeared back into them.
As the wine was spilled red, he stained the floor of the narrow street in the neighborhood of San Antonio, Paris. There was also stained many hands and many faces, and those who entertained licking staves were with red spots around the mouth, like gorged Tigers meat, and there was even a joker with fingers dipped in red mud, wrote on the wall the word "Blood".
Day would come when this wine was poured out on the streets and whose red stain also many of those who were there.
Street again returned to his usual state, it left a moment, and was sad, cold, dirty, full of disease and misery, ignorance and hunger. Everywhere aged poor, weak and hungry individuals were seen. The children were old faces and spoke gravely. Hunger reigned in the neighborhood as mistress and warned its manifestations everywhere. The streets were narrow and winding, not to mention dirty as middens and houses that were made were inhabited by people steeped in the blackest misery. But even after all, there were plenty bright eyes, pursed lips and wrinkled foreheads. In the same stores also it warned the general necessity, because only in butcher shops and meat scraps in small bakeries and breads looked rude. Concurrent to taverns drank their tiny glasses of wine or beer and spoke confidentially. Nothing was there represented in flourishing state, except for the armories and stores that were selling tools. Instruments or steel weapons were brilliant, they were sharp and plentiful. Street uneven floor was lacking sidewalks and bumpy. Lanterns, at long intervals, hanging from ropes that crossed from one side to another street and evenings just enough to dispel the shadows. They were sharp and plentiful. Street uneven floor was lacking sidewalks and bumpy. Lanterns, at long intervals, hanging from ropes that crossed from one side to another street and evenings just enough to dispel the shadows. They were sharp and plentiful. Street uneven floor was lacking sidewalks and bumpy. Lanterns, at long intervals, hanging from ropes that crossed from one side to another street and evenings just enough to dispel the shadows.
The tavern before which broke barrel in the corner of the street and looked better than other establishments. The publican watched the fight spilled drink wine without importársele much, because as the mess was caused by unloading the wine, ran their own provide another barrel.
Suddenly his eyes surprised the prankster who wrote on the wall with his fingers and angrily approached him, wiping his hands the terrible word that the other trace.
The publican was a man of martial appearance, bull neck and thirties. It must be fiery temperament, because even though the day was very cold wore slung shoulder jacket and shirt sleeves rolled to the elbow. The head was covered only by her black curly hair. Otherwise it was dark, had good eyes and determined look. He seemed in good humor, but ruthlessness, resolute and strong-willed.
Madame Defarge, his wife, was sitting in the tent, behind the counter, when it came. She was a big woman, the same age as her husband, with watchful eyes that seemed to look at anything, big hands, adorned with rings, face strong features and expression of perfect composure. He seemed very wedges and was wrapped in furs, including the head, although revealing earrings. She had before her knitting-work, but had put aside to clean his teeth with a splinter. So busy Madame Defarge said nothing when entering her husband, but merely coughed slightly, and this coupled with a slight movement of his eyebrows, said her husband watch the convenience of its customers,
Indeed, the publican soon discovered a gentleman of some age, accompanied by a young lady who sat in a corner. Other customers were

there playing, and while the bartender went behind the counter noted that the gentleman said referring to him:
This is our man.
Telling herself she did not know, the barkeep stopped to talk to the three patrons who were drinking at the counter.
How's it going, Jaime? He asked one tabernero.- do you already have drunk all the wine poured?
Until the last drop, Jaime said Mr. Defarge.
As they had done sharing his name, Madame Defarge coughed again and raised his eyebrows again.
-few times observed the second of three, Mr. Defarge- addressing these beasts have a chance to taste the taste of wine or anything else but black bread and death. Not so, Jaime?
You're right, Jaime said Mr. Defarge.
After this second exchange of name, Madame Defarge coughed again and again raised his eyebrows. The last of the three left the empty glass and wiped his lips, saying:
Those poor animals have always in the mouth another very bitter taste and a very hard life, Jaime. Did not I say okay?
You're right, Jaime said Mr. Defarge.
At that time, after the third exchange name, Madame Defarge put the toothpicks, raised his eyebrows and shifted in his seat.
It's true he murmured his marido.- Gentlemen ... my wife.
The three parishioners were discovered at Madame Defarge and bowed, to which she replied, bowing his head and examining them quickly.
Then he looked indifferently toward the tavern and resumed her knitting-work.
Gentlemen said her husband had watched with great attention: -The furnished room you wished to see is on the fifth floor. The staircase of the patio, left ... But now I remember that one of you already knows and can guide others. Good bye, sirs.
They paid the wine they had drunk and went, and while the publican watched his wife some old gentleman advanced from his corner and expressed desire to speak alone with the barkeep.
With great pleasure, sir, 'said Defarge him toward the door.
The conference was very short but decisive effects. Almost at the first word the publican was startled and said the most attention. It was not after one minute when he made an affirmative signal and went out. Then the gentleman called the young man with hand and both went well. Madame Defarge knitting and still saw nothing.
Mr. Jarvis Lorry and the Miss Manette came and reached the tavern and the barkeep at the ladder which he sent three parishioners. In the dark staircase entrance black the publican dropped to one knee and took his lips the hand of the daughter of his former master. It was a delicacy, but made so that there was nothing delicate. In a few seconds he suffered a great transformation, because his face was no longer any expression of good humor and frankness, but reserve cholera and dangerous man.
He's quite tall Mr. Lorry said dryly. -He is alone? he murmured.
Who want to be with him? said the barkeep. -¿Está always alone?

-Yes.
'Why your desire?
-for your need. As it was when I saw him and asked if I wanted him
in my house. So it is now.
I -¿Está really changed?
I -¡Cambiado!
The publican slammed his fist into the wall and uttered blasphemy, which was more
Mr. Lorry eloquent a clear answer.
Penoso would climb the stairs of an old house in Paris in our time, but
then it was even more. In each of the landings there was a lot of trash deposited by neighbors, and that mass decaying vitiate the atmosphere so you could barely breathe. Mr. Lorry had to stop twice with a windows fitted bars giving exit to mefítico environment; But finally they reached the top and the publican who went before them took a key from his pocket.
-¿Está locked up? Asked Mr. Lorry.
Yes Defarge said dryly.
'Do you think I need to have so reclusive that poor gentleman? -Considero require keys to unlock.
-Why?
Because he lived so shut up time, which shy away from death if this door is left open.
-It's possible?
-So is.
Such dialogue took place so quietly that not a word reached the ears of
the young woman who was trembling with emotion and his face expressed such terror that Mr. Lorry felt it necessary to guide you some words to give encouragement.
-¡Valor, dear lady, courage! The worst will be over in a moment. Once we passed this door. Then start all the good that you bring you and all that you offer to the unfortunate. Our good friend Defarge help us. Come on.
Rounding one of the turns of the stairs they found three men who were at a door and looking through the keyhole. Upon hearing the footsteps of those who went turned their heads and proved to be the three parishioners of the same name who had been drinking at the tavern.
I forgot them in the surprise of your visit said Mr. Defarge. - Leave us, friends. We have to do.
The three undertook the descent and disappeared.
There was already another door and was about to open publican, when Mr. Lorry asked:
'Have you made to Mr. Manette display object?
Let'm seeing, as have observed, but only a few are chosen. 'Do you think it's okay?
-Yes I believe it.
Who are those few? How do you choose?
-Escojo those who are true men and are called like me, Jaime. For other
part you are English and not would understand me.
then he looked through a hole in the wall and lifting the head, called two or three
Sometimes at the door, with no other apparent purpose than making noise. With the same intention noisily he puts the key in the lock and finally opened. Before entering he said something and answered a weak voice from inside. Then he motioned to the barkeep

his companions to enter and Mr. Lorry took the girl's arm, as he observed that he lacked strength.
Come in with me -dijo.- All this is nothing more than ... a matter of business. I'm scared, 'she replied shaking.
-Of what?
I mean it. Of my father.
Embarrassed by the state of the young and the signs that made him the barkeep, Mr. Lorry rose to his companion in arms and pulled her into the room. Defarge took the key, locked inside, all that with as much noise as he could, and eventually walked slowly up to the window beside which he stopped.
The place obviously aimed at woodshed, was very dark, as there was a window on the roof only and was half closed. It was therefore difficult to advance to the prevailing low light, but there though and back to the door, I was a white-haired man sitting on a low stool, very busily making shoes. Chapter VI The Shoemaker
Good morning said Mr. Defarge looking at the white-haired man who had his head bent over her work.
The challenged looked up and softly, as distant, answered the salutation:
-Good Morning.
Always working, huh?
After long silence, the white head rose again and said:
-Yes I'm working.
And this time, before tilting back his head, the old man looked at tabernero
with her deranged eyes.
The weakness of the voice caused compassion and fear of time. It was not weakness
resulting from the loss of strength, but undoubtedly was due largely to the closure and lack of use. It was as faint echo of a very old sound.
There was a pause and then the barkeep said:
I wish to open a window slightly to let more light. Will you be able to resist?
The shoemaker stopped his work and asked:
-What are you saying?
That if you can withstand a little more light.
I'll have to resist if you let go.
The publican opened the window and the light beam which entered the old shoemaker left to see
that his lap half-finished shoe. On the sidewalk and on the floor were his tools. His white beard, badly cut, the sucking face and eyes very bright. His shirt open chest, exposing his white and sagging skin. And both he and the rags he wore, because of the long confinement had acquired yellowing parchment.
He put a hand to his eyes to protect them from light and then saw that it was transparentaban bones. He not is looking at the barkeep, but just ran my eyes to either side, as if he had lost the habit of associating the space with sound.
-¿Vais end today this pair of shoes? Defarge said while motioning to Mr. Lorry to come forward.
-What are you saying?
If you are going to finish today this pair of shoes.
This question reminded him of his work again and bent over her. While
advanced both Mr. Lorry carrying hand to the young, and when to thing

one minute that were next to Defarge, the shoemaker looked up. He showed no signs of surprise at seeing someone else, but her hand to his lips and then resumed work.
-Tenéis a visit Defarge 'I said.
-What are you saying?
Which is a visit. Look, this gentleman is very intelligent footwear. show him
the shoe you are doing. Take a Lorry he said giving the zapato.- Now added, turning to the shoemaker 'Tell this gentleman what kind of shoe is it and name it does.
There was a long pause and then the poor man said:
I've already forgotten what you said to me. I repetídmelo.
'Can you describe this shoe?
It's a lady's shoe. A fashion, though I've never seen fashion. 'And the name of the shoemaker?
-¿Preguntáis you my name? he said after a long silence. -Precisely.
One hundred and five North Tower.
-Nothing else?
One hundred and five North Tower.
And with a sigh again absorbed in his work.
-¿Sois shoemaker by trade? He asked Mr. Lorry.
The challenged she stared at Defarge, like inviting him to answer, but given that
he did not, he did say:
No, it's not my job. I have learned here. I learned by myself. I asked permission ... He paused as if not resolved to continue and then added: -Pedí permission to learn myself. I got it at the end, after many
difficulties and since then I make shoes.
And while the hand held out waiting for them to return his work, Mr. Lorry
He asked, staring at him:
You isn't you remember me, Mr. Manette?
The shoe fell, while the poor shoemaker who asked him looked at. Isn't not you remember this man, Mr. Manette? He asked Mr. Lorry,
He is putting his hand on the arm of Defarge. -Miradlo well. Look at me too. Do not return to your memory the images of those who were your former banker and your servant, and you remember your old business, Mr. Manette?
Captive many years stared at Mr. Lorry and Defarge let your eyes show some flashes of the old intelligence, but were soon clouded.
And that happened again when the unfortunate eyes fixed on the beautiful face of the girl, sliding along the wall progressed holding out his hands, in his desire to shake his head against his chest that spectrum.
But again it was off the flash of intelligence. Sighing, the shoemaker resumed its work.
I -¿Lo have recognized, sir? Defarge asked softly.
Yes, for a moment. At first I did not believe it possible, but then, for a moment, I have fully recognized the face that was so familiar to me. But let us withdraw a little. Young, meanwhile, had moved closer to his father and stood beside him in
While he was absorbed in his work. Finally, I had need to change tools and in doing so his eyes fixed on the end of the skirt of her daughter.

Then he looked up and saw his face. The two men were startled, fearing that the bastard could hurt her with his knife, but she waved them to remain still and they obeyed.
He stared at her, startled, and looked as if his lips would articulate some words, but remained silent. Then, after a few moments when his breathing was gasping with emotion he felt, he said:
-What is this?
She took his hands to his lips, and then folded his arms across his chest, as if he's dear old man's head support.
Isn't're the jailer's daughter? he asked.
No, 'said the young woman with a sigh.
Who are you, then?
Not daring to answer, she sat on the bench beside his father,
which she recoiled, but she laid her hand on his arm. Strange commotion over him, and leaving aside the blade stared at the apparition. The golden-haired young, hair in long ringlets, fell on her slender neck and the old man, advancing slowly hand, gently touched the golden strands, but the light for a moment just shine in his intelligence was extinguished, and giving sighing, he sails out to sea again in their work.
But not for long. She put her hand on his shoulder and, after doubting that, indeed, the appearance was real, put aside the work, hand to neck and pulled out a blackened cord from which hung an old cloth bag.
He opened it with the utmost care, above the knee, and then saw that it contained some hair; only two or three golden strands, which on more than one occasion surround his fingers.
He took back the hair of young and murmured:
-How is it possible? They are the same. When it happened? How?
On his forehead concentration he warned his ideas.
Suddenly he took the head of the girl, returned to the light and looked at most
Attention.
That night when I called, she rested her head on my shoulder ... I had
afraid to come out, but I did not fear anything ... and when I locked him in the North Tower, I found it hidden in his sleeve. Would I let you keep it? You can not help facilitate the escape of my body, but allow my spirit to leave. I said these words, I remember. perfectly.
These words formed on his lips several times before pronouncing power, but when he did he issued a coherent way, albeit slowly.
-How can that be? Vos you were?
Again viewers were alarmed that scene, because he had turned to the girl with extraordinary rapidity. But the girl sat quietly and softly said to them,
I beg, gentlemen, that you approach not and will not soon shaken even. What voice is this? He exclaimed the old man.
As he uttered these words released her white hair is mesó, but
reassuring then kept his bag, but still looking young.
No, no, 'he said,' You are too young and pretty. Can not be. See how is the
prisoner. These are not the hands she knew, the voice that was used to hearing. No no. She was, and he also ... before the last long years in the North Tower ... ago that was a long, long time. What is your name, my angel?

The young man dropped to his knees before his father, with hands folded over his chest.
Oh, sir, I know what my name, and you shall know who were my mother and father and their sad, sad story. But now I can not tell you. What I do ask now is that touch me with your hands and bless me. Kiss me, Kiss me.
White old man's head made contact with the golden hair of the girl, who seemed to lend new life, as if about it shine the light of freedom.
If you hear my voice, and maybe it well, but I hope, if you hear in my voice any resemblance to that once was sweet harmony in your ears, weep, weep for her. If my hair touching something reminds you of an adored one day He rested his head in your chest when you were young and free, weep, weep for her. If when you name the home that awaits us, and which I will strive to happy to make you with my love and care, I remind you a home that was devastated while your poor heart missed him, weep, too weep for him .
And the old man around the neck with his arms, rocked him on his chest, as if he were a child.
If I tell you, my dear, you've already finished your agony and I've come to take me to England, to enjoy peace and tranquility, and that makes you remember that your life miscarried when so useful it could have been and that your country, France, was so cruel to you, too weep, weep. And if when I tell you my name and my father, who still lives, and my mother, who died already know that I will have to fall on his knees before my dear father to apologize for having left to seek their freedom and not crying for him night and day, because the love of my poor mother away from me this torture, also weep for it, weep for me and for her. Good gentlemen, thank God, because I feel that his tears run down my face and sobs shaking over my heart. Behold! Thank you,
The poor old man had taken refuge in the arms of the young and rested her head on his chest. And that scene was so touching that the two witnesses covered their faces with their hands.
When quiet reigned again in that dark place, the two men approached to raise the father and daughter, then, imperceptibly, had slipped to the ground ..
If it were possible that the girl said, unmolested, it could have all to leave Paris as soon as possible ...
'Do you think it will be able to endure the journey? He asked Mr. Lorry. -more than continuing in this city so fatal for him.
It's true, 'said Defarge who had knelt to hear and see mejor.- More than
to stay. Mr. Manette will always be better off away from France. Do you want to go to hire a carriage and post-horses?
A business that is already answered Mr. Lorry recovering at once his methodical ways - and whether to terminate a business is better than me handle it.
Do Then please leave us alone Manette.- begged Miss You see what has remained quiet; Do not be afraid to leave me alone with him. Shut the door behind you, so do not interrupt us, and, no doubt, you will find it easy to return.
Unwise looked at the two men this proposition, and at least one of them wanted to stay, but as also had to arrange the necessary paperwork and time pressed, the necessary steps were distributed and rushed out.

While accentuating the shadows, she stood beside his father, still looking at him. Both stood still and finally a ray of light filtered through a hole in the wall.
Mr. Lorry and Defarge had prepared everything for the trip and took him, plus some warm clothes, bread, meat, wine and hot coffee. Defarge stopped on the sidewalk provisions shoemaker and the lamp he carried and helped by Mr. Lorry lifted the captive.
Nobody would have been able to tell by the expression on his face, the mysterious ideas of his mind. It was impossible to understand whether he realized what had happened and the fact that it was free. They tried to speak, but the unfortunate seemed so confused and responded so slowly, they thought better not to bother with new observations. Sometimes his head in his hands picked, but always seemed to experience pleasure at hearing her daughter's voice, to which he invariably returned many times spoke.
With the peculiar obedience of those who are accustomed to undergo strength, ate, he drank and wrapped in the clothes they gave him. Welcome he was carried away by his daughter, who grabbed his arm and even took it in his hands Young. Then they started down the stairs; Defarge went ahead with the lamp, Mr. Lorry was behind. A few steps down when the girl had stopped and asked:
-¿Os remember, my father, I came here ?.
No, -contestó.- I do not remember that too long ago.
He had no memory of being taken from his prison to take him to the house.
Those who were with him heard him mutter, "One hundred and five, North Tower," and noted that he looked around, as if searching for the stone walls of the fortress. Arriving at court, instinctively he slowed, as if waiting to cross the drawbridge, but as they saw it and instead would find a carriage waiting for him on the street, took her daughter's hand and bowed his head.
More silence reigned in the street and she did not see anyone but Madame Defarge that reclined on the doorjamb, still knitting, and saw nothing.
The prisoner got into the car with her daughter, but immediately begged him to surrender his shoemaker's tools and half-finished footwear. Madame Defarge, who heard his entreaty, hastened to please him; shortly after he returned bringing the order and returned to engage in the work of knitting, but apparently without having seen anything.
-¡A Barrier! cried Defarge entering the car. The coachman cracked his whip and the vehicle was launched.
Finally they detained soldiers, armed with flashlights, and one of them exclaimed:
'Your papers, knights.
Here they are, sir, 'said Defarge officer down and taking apart the militar.- These are the papers of this gentleman who goes in the car, white hair. I have been there entered with him, by ...- He lowered his voice before finishing the sentence and the officer, after a glance the passenger in question, replied:
-Perfectly. Ahead.
Bye said Defarge.
The car started walking again and ventured into the dark shadows of the night. Y
during cold and dark interval until morning, ringing in the ears of Mr. Jarvis Lorry, sitting opposite the unearthed, the same words:
I hope you will like coming back to life.

And the answer was the same as ever. -I can not say it.
